# ada_launch

This is a collection of small, on-file programs that prove the effectiveness of Ada 2012 as being more cross-platform effective than a script language.  These are simple launchers that can add to convenience of commands either typed or put in desktop-icon-files per platform.

For WSL_Launch (Windows Subsystem for Linux) the idea is to copy and rename the executable created to whatever the command to launch in the Linux environment.  The launcher wraps all arguments and should duplicate the Standard input/output/error to anything it launches.  I have not had a chance to test it's effectiveness, since I have been doing most of my work in Linux lately (for me, Linux is much more work friendly, and Windows is mainly best at being a reliable and functional backup when I need it as well as being better for games-which I almost never play- and commercial media).  Having programmed in Windows, though, I am confident that all that I have succeeded with in Linux will run with little or no modification, since interfacing with any supported Operating System environment is one of the advantages of Ada 2012 and the Gnat compiler.  In any case, making Windows a more effective work environment is one of the original reasons I came up with Ada_Launch.  Microsoft teams are fixing what they must and I am providing what I can to finally make Windows smooth enough of a work environment to compare with Linux.

*Side Note: The Commercial vs Open Source differing models produce:*
-  *A Windows environment that adapts and fits to the users slowly, though constant paid support gives generally fast support for industrial and commercial work environments.*
-  *A Linux/Darwin/BSD environment that adapts and fits users quickly, often innovating ideas that are followed on other operating systems, but that leaves implementations often incomplete or broken, requiring old and less featured software to be used when industrial and commercial support is needed.*

The Chromium launcher is a way of ensuring that the correct profile is launched by default and also a way to associate specific web-apps with actual executables.  I have not found a way to make that apparent in the window management, but Chromium and the OS developers are always making a little progress toward that end and it usually works pretty well for now.

The GPS launcher is a way to fix the most common problems with launching AdaCore's Gnat Programming Studio.  It seems to always have problems working with the environment or with alternate compilers (like the GMGPL FSF version of gnat, with newer cool features versus the GPL, limited, though well supported AdaCore version).  This launcher is meant to replace the script included with GPS GPL 2016, and with a little modification should work with any installation.


If there something missing, it is just because I am not always good about my update->upload->document->upload process, especially when I have to work beside programming.  Still these tasks are so simple in Ada that anything missing a person can just do where I have left undone or unshared.  My thinking is that Ada, while powerful enough to all low level programming, is simple and high level enough that it can almost replace scripting.  For years I have favored scripting, especially perl and Zsh, for accomplishing the many small tasks I wanted or needed done.  But since I have been getting a little better here and there at Ada programming, I am finding that it is actually easier (not faster) and yeilds better results to write script-like programs in Ada.  As long as I use cross-platform features of Ada, I can even create better programs for quick and dirty jobs than I could in any scripting language.  Professionally, I have found Perl to be very useful when I need to have something I create on my end work on a clients machine, but if I can get a good cross-compiler for both Windows 10 and macOS hosted by Linux, I may just be able to do better for them in Ada.  We'll see.  Anyway I look forward to the day when Ada will be supported and work well for iOS and Android as well.  For now the most cross platform support with the most Ada interoperablity support that I have found seems to be Python with any of its GUI modules/addons. 
